## Semantic Part Detection via Matching: Learning to Generalize to Novel Viewpoints from Limited Training Data

This repo constains the pytorch implementation for the ICCV2019: Semantic Part Detection via Matching: Learning to Generalize to Novel Viewpoints from Limited Training Data [arxiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.11823).

```
@inproceedings{bai2019semantic,
  title={Semantic Part Detection via Matching: Learning to Generalize to Novel Viewpoints from Limited Training Data},
  author={Bai, Yutong and Liu, Qing and Xie, Lingxi and Qiu, Weichao and Zheng, Yan and Yuille, Alan L},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision},
  pages={7535--7545},
  year={2019}
}
```

## Highlight
- We present an approach which can learn from a small annotated dataset containing a limited range of viewpoints and generalize to detect semantic parts for a much larger range of viewpoints. 
- The approach is based on our matching algorithm, which is used for finding accurate spatial correspondence between two images and transplanting semantic parts annotated on one image to the other.

## Usage
Our code uses PyTorch to implement. 
Experiments are performed on the [VehicleSemanticPart (VSP)](https://arxiv.org/abs/1511.06855) dataset and synthetic images generated by [UnrealCV](https://unrealcv.org/). 
Please refer to these websites for details of data preparation.

- supports python3 and [pytorch=1.1.0](http://pytorch.org)

- need to install MATLAB

- clone this repo: `git clone https://github.com/ytongbai/SemanticPartDetection.git`

- Pipeline: 
For both training and testing stage:
  - Generate synthetic data. 
  - Get training images from different viewpoints. 
  
  `python get_vp_examples.py`, `python assign_synthetic_img.py `
  - Extract features from ImageNet pretrained VGG-16 Network.  
  `python extractLayerFeat.py`
  - Data format change to MATLAB. 
  `python featPickle2featCell.py`
  - Use maximal clique algorithm to conduct the matching stage. 
  `bash MaximalCliqueAlgorithm/run_per_folder.sh`
  - Use feature extracted from pool-3 layer from ImageNet Pretrained VGG-16 to refine. 
  `python refine_pool3.py` 
  - Aggregate 2D parts to 3D CAD model.
  `python aggregate_3d_wPars.py`,`python solve_nearest_score.py`
  - Calculate mAP score. `python calculate_mAP.py`

## Contact

For any questions, please feel free to reach 
```
Yutong Bai: ytongbai@gmail.com
```
